Add use arm article (#1)
gozineb/Articles: blog-posts/guardian/useArm/useArm.md

---
published: false

> title: 'AWS ARM64: Time to upgrade architectures - Guardian is watching over you'

Reviewer: Il faudrait parler de lambda dans le titre je pense, c'est plus impactant 😉

cover_image:
description: ''
tags: serverless, lambda, sustainability, AWS, 
series:
canonical_url:
---

_This article is part of a series on [Guardian](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@kumo-by-theodo/guardian), an open-source, highly configurable, automated best-practice audit tool for AWS serverless architectures._

> ## Use the latest infrastructures : Graviton processors

Reviewer: Idem, remettre le mot lambda

The X86 architecture is widely adopted in the computer science field and is the go-to choice when it comes to computers and servers hardware. Yet, in the last couple of years, the Advanced RISC Machines or ARM have seduced more than one. 

> AWS is one of the early adopters of ARM architecture in their on-demand cloud computing offer. In 2018, it unveiled its Graviton processors using 64-bit ARM chips for their compute offering stream (AWS EC2). Now, AWS Graviton3 processors are the latest in the AWS Graviton family. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AWS is one of the early adopters of ARM architecture in their on-demand cloud computing offer. In 2018, they unveiled their Graviton processors using 64-bit ARM chips for their compute offering stream (AWS EC2). Now, AWS Graviton3 processors are the latest in the AWS Graviton family. 
```

pour rester cohérente avec le reste de la phrase

Graviton3 is previewed to give 25% performance improvement to the previous graviton2 according to AWS. ARM also provides more predictable performance with less latency and disruptions. 

### Think sustainability 

Your software projects —serverless or not— ultimately run on hardware and as your projects continue to grow, so does the reliance on and the use of the hardware. A 64-bit ARM core undertakes operations faster than x86_64: the task gets done quicker, and then the chip shuts down. Using an ARM architecture, you are guaranteed to reduce your carbon footprint.

### Think costs 

A quicker run time rhymes with saving costs. [RedPanda](https://redpanda.com/blog/aws-graviton-2-arm-vs-x86-comparison), a streaming platform for mission-critical workloads, measured key performance metrics using the storage intensive workload platform as a target application. The results show a 20% price to performance advantage with Graviton2 compared to x86. 

## Specify your Architecture 

> The AWS Lambda service offers the possibility to use the AWS Graviton2 processor. By default, architecture is set to x86_64. That is why you should specify in your lambda.

Reviewer 2: Ca peut etre bien en 2 mots de dire pourquoi c'est toujours x86_64 par défaut (pour éviter les breaking changes si je dis pas de bêtises). En tant que lecteur, je pourrais me dire que l'archi par défaut c'est la meilleure ou bien la plus stable et avoir peur de changer malgré l'article

> To switch all functions to AWS Graviton2 processor, configure architecture at the provider level as follows:

Reviewer: Il faudrait parler du fait que tu fais montres un exemple avec le framework serverless ici, et dire que ça marche à peu près pareil avec cdk, san, sst, et autres...

> ```ts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```yml
```

> // serverless.ts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// serverless.yml
```
